1.	Skill and space-time evolution of ISMR in NCEP-CFS simulations.
Besides evaluating these using conventional analyses, we are also developing an alternative methodology based on Self Organizing Maps aimed at an objective set of metrics to quantify the behaviour of the Indian monsoon rainfall across multiple space and time scales. Using self-organizing-maps we have classified the joint space-time behaviour of the rainfall in the annual and interannual time scales. These were used to objectively determine biases of the model in a 20-year long coupled integration of the high resolution T382 version of NCEP-CFS. Our preliminary results suggest that while the high-resolution run of the model at T382 may have succeeded in simulating the overall evolution (annual cycle) of the ISMR, it has the following severe biases.  The first one is related to a severe dry bias over central India.  The second one is related to the intensity of rainfall in the model.  In observations, 4 distinct regimes of daily rainfall intensity may be noted, ranging from moderate rainfall regimes over Southeast and Northwest India to intense rainfall regimes over Western Ghats and central India. In sharp contrast, the NCEP-CFS model at T382 resolution has only one type of rainfall regime that features light rain all over India.
2.	Ability of NCEP-CFS in simulating subseasonal statistics associated with ISMR evolution
While the NCEP-CFS simulated intraseasonal variations are stronger than observed, they nevertheless have biases in the periodicity of ISO as well as severe spatial biases. As to periodicity, the simulated ISO is biased towards the lower-frequency end of the ISO spectrum with relatively weak variations in the 30 to 50 day time scales.  In addition, the NCEP-CFS ISO variations are confined to the equator with weak propagation towards the Indian subcontinent.
3.	Evaluate the extent to which regional modelling can correct biases in the NCEP-CFS and improve upon multi-scale ISMR variations
We have carried out a suite of regional modelling experiments using the WRF model forced at the boundaries by the NCEP-CFS free coupled simulation at T382 resolution.  These simulations are able to improve the dry bias over central India significantly. In addition, the embedded simulation is able to represent the multiple rainfall intensity regimes better, although the rainfall intensity is somewhat stronger in the embedded simulations. ISO has been improved to some extent and has better northward extent.
4.	Sensitivity of ISMR simulations to various controlling factors
Several sensitivity experiments have been carried in the course of configuring the embedded simulations. One striking result is the role of mixed-layer ocean-atmosphere interactions in controlling the spatial structure of rainfall. 

